# Simply Block!

Simply Block! is a minimal Chrome extension that blocks access to websites that you don't want to visit anymore.

Use Simply Block! to claim back what's most important to you:
* Claim back your time: block websites that keep you hooked forever even when you "just look for a few minutes".
* Claim back quality content: block low-quality autogenerated websites that keep appearing in search results again and
  again.
* Claim back your optimism: block news websites that put a negative spin on everything, because neutral and good news 
  just aren't clickbaity enough. 
* Claim back your free will: block websites that you are addicted to, like social media or xxx sites.

Simply Block! doesn't have any bells and whistles. In old UNIX tradition it's just doing one thing, and it's doing a 
great job at it: Simply Block! blocks websites. You feed it with a list of website hosts that you don't want to visit 
anymore and then, whenever you try to visit one of these sites, Simply Block! redirects you to a minimalistic site 
telling you that this site is blocked.

## Installation

Simply Block! is a Chrome extension, but it's not published on the Chrome Web Store, because I just code for fun and 
personal usage and don't want to sign any complicated legal documents just to offer something for free.
If you want to add it to your Chrome, you can download the code and use one of the
[alternative installation methods](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/how-to/distribute/install-extensions).

## Configuration

1. Open the extension options
2. In the text area that appears, enter the names of all hosts that you want to block. 
   * Each entry should be on its own line.
   * Each entry should specify a domain name suffix that you want to block. Because it's a suffix, Simply Block! will 
     block access to the configured domain and all of its subdomains. This means for example: 
     * If you add 'www.foo.com' to the block list, Simply Block! will block access to 'www.foo.com' but allow you to 
       access 'foo.com' or 'de.foo.com'
     * If you add 'foo.com' to the block list, Simply Block! will block access to 'foo.com', 'www.foo.com', 'de.foo.com' 
       and any other subdomains of 'foo.com'.
3. Click the 'Save' button
4. That's it :)

## Security
Maximum security was my main motivation when I decided to implement my own website blocker and in my opinion, the best 
security measurement is minimalism. For this reason, Simply Block! has been designed to do just one simple thing, but 
do it well. This means:
1. Simply Block! only has about 100 lines of straightforward code. If you don't trust me, and you shouldn't, you can 
   review the whole code to be certain that there aren't any backdoors.
2. Simply Block! requires only minimal browser permissions:
   * It needs ['storage' permissions](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/storage) to store the 
     block list you configured in the browser storage.
   * It needs ['webNavigation' permissions](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/webNavigation) 
     to check the URLs of all websites that you try to visit, to be able to redirect you away from the ones you blocked.